README.md, before:

# Simple Financial Forecasting Model Based on Pretrained GPT-2 Backbone

In this project, we build a financial forecasting model based on a pretrained GPT-2 backbone. Given a time series dataset consisting of OHLCV observations, the objective is to forecast the future direction of price change.

The model learns a mapping:

$$
f: \mathcal{X} \rightarrow \mathcal{Y}
$$

where:

- $$X \in \mathcal{X} \subset \mathbb{R}^{1024 \times F}$$ represents a sequence of length 1024 (i.e., 1024 time steps) with $$F$$ features at each time step. $$F$$ consists of appropriately-transformed OHLCV features concatenated with a collection of derived features (see **Data Augmentations** below).
- $$Y \in \{0, 1\}$$ is the binary label, where $$Y = 1$$ indicates that the closing price at time $$t+1$$ is greater than the closing price at time $$t$$, i.e., $$\text{close}[t+1] > \text{close}[t]$$.

In this setup, the model predicts the direction of price change based on a sliding window of past observations.

## Base Model
Pretrained GPT2 from Hugging Face

https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/en/model_doc/gpt2#using-flash-attention-2




## Training Data
The dataset used for experiments consists of minute bars of SPY ETF observations, from 2005 to 2024. The minute bars are aggregated to 3-hourly windows.


## Data Augmentations
Talib library is used to augment the raw data with some common financial indicators:
- Short and long-term Simple-Moving Averages (SMA) of the close price, with explicit crossover SMA(Short)>SMA(Long) included as an indicator variable taking values in $$0,1$$.
- Average True Range (ATR) values of the price series, with varying window length.
- Bollinger Bands.

In some sense, we can think of these derived indicators as providing more signal regarding the price momentum which could be used to anticipate subsequent price behaviour.



## Training
The training is feasible on a single 4090.


# Further avenues of exploration:

- Scaling to higher n GPU, with more data                    []
- Verifying effect of smaller time window                    []
- Integrating with backtest                                  []

Commit message:

udpate local paths w batch size config2

README.md, after:

# Simple Financial Forecasting Model Based on Pretrained GPT-2 Backbone

In this project, we build a financial forecasting model based on a pretrained GPT-2 backbone. Given a time series dataset consisting of OHLCV observations, the objective is to forecast the future direction of price change.

The model learns a mapping:

$$
f: \mathcal{X} \rightarrow \mathcal{Y}
$$

where:

- $$X \in \mathcal{X} \subset \mathbb{R}^{1024 \times F}$$ represents a sequence of length 1024 (i.e., 1024 time steps) with $$F$$ features at each time step. $$F$$ consists of appropriately-transformed OHLCV features concatenated with a collection of derived features (see **Data Augmentations** below).
- $$Y \in \{0, 1\}$$ is the binary label, where $$Y = 1$$ indicates that the closing price at time $$t+1$$ is greater than the closing price at time $$t$$, i.e., $$\text{close}[t+1] > \text{close}[t]$$.

In this setup, the model predicts the direction of price change based on a sliding window of past observations.

## Base Model
Pretrained GPT2 from Hugging Face

https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/en/model_doc/gpt2#using-flash-attention-2




## Training Data
The dataset used for experiments consists of minute bars of SPY ETF observations, from 2005 to 2024. The minute bars are aggregated to 3-hourly windows.


## Data Augmentations
Talib library is used to augment the raw data with some common financial indicators:
- Short and long-term Simple-Moving Averages (SMA) of the close price, with explicit crossover SMA(Short)>SMA(Long) included as an indicator variable taking values in $$0,1$$.
- Average True Range (ATR) values of the price series, with varying window length.
- Bollinger Bands.

In some sense, we can think of these derived indicators as providing more signal regarding the price momentum which could be used to anticipate subsequent price behaviour. They constitute a knowledge-driven inductive bias.

## Using Pretrained GPT-2

One hopes transfer learning.



## Training
The training is feasible on a single 4090. Howwever RAM is maxing out at 46GB, ~4 iterations per second with batch size of 16. There is little CPU utilisation:

Indicating the presence of some bottleneck. Nonetheless, this seems okay for a proof of concept project.


# Further avenues of exploration:

- Scaling to higher n GPU, with more data                    []
- Verifying effect of smaller time window                    []
- Integrating with backtest                                  []
